Hey friends, this is Scott.
If you appreciate Hansel minutes
and the hard work that
we put into this show
every week, I would encourage
you to support our sponsors
this week. GD picture.net is
sponsoring the show G D
picture.net as an all in
one SDK for WinForms WPF
and web development, it supports
more than 100 formats, and
that includes PDF and office
open XML GD picture.net helps
you create powerful document imaging
image processing and document management
apps. And you can download
a free trial of GD
picture.net at www dot G
D. picture.com. Check them out
www.gd, picture.com. Again, if you
support us, please support our
sponsors, pay friends. This is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
today I'm talking with Christine
Spang, she's the co founder
and CTO of Nylas and
a very long time, Debbie
and contributor. How are you?
I'm doing great. I'm looking
at your LinkedIn and I'm
just blown away. You've been
doing a Debbie and for
now what? 11 years. Yeah,
it's a bit of an
interesting story. Debbie is kind
of a, it was instrumental
in like how I got
into computing actually and how
I decided that I wanted
to be a software engineer.
The story kind of goes
a little bit before I
actually started using Devin. So
the reason that I ended
up using Debbie and in
the first place was when
I was in high school,
I got really into computer
gaming and I was really
interested in trying to find
like the games that had
the fewest rules for like,
like stories that you had
to follow as possible. Because
I guess I kind of
wanted like to live in
another world and kind of
like explore, but I didn't
want to have to like,
you know, do exactly what
the game creators told me
to. So that eventually led
me to playing these online
games that are multiplayer games
and they were text-based called
muds. Hmm. And how this
ended up with me getting
into Debbie Lynn was after
playing one of these muds
for a while. It was
actually a Lord of the
rings themed mud. I started
actually helping out run it
because they had basically administrators
that helps kind of run
plots. And like this mud
was very roleplaying focused. So
everyone had to spend a
lot of time creating a
character or writing their description
and figuring out what their
backstory was and their personality.
And then the admins would
have to like go through
the use and approve the
characters before they went into
the game to make that
it was, you know, a
kind of rich in theme
world. So I eventually became
one of these like roleplaying
administrators and those people would
like build areas of the
world and they would like
run storylines and parts of
the world and just kind
of like make the world
come alive. But if you
were just a roleplaying administrator,
you were limited to kind
of using the tools that
existed in the game world
to create new things. Whereas
I kind of viewed that
there were lot basically like
two people on the administration
team at this mud that
knew how to code. And
I pretty much viewed them
as having super powers because
they could actually change how
the game world worked and
like create entirely new things
that no one else had
imagined before. So I really
wanted to learn to program
in order to be able
to contribute to this game
world in a way that
I couldn't. So for one,
the games code base only
ran a Linux. And so
my uncle used Linux and
he ran Debby in and
he got my twin brother
into a running. And so
I had my twin brother
helped me install Debbie in
on this, like, you know,
with those like tower computers
that people had back in
the day, Was it that
the white or the beige
one, the big giant one
Mine was actually kind of
like dark gray. And I
think it was from like
comp USA or one of
those like big box stores
that no longer exists anymore.
So back in the day,
it was kind of a
feat to manage, to install
in alongside windows and not
accidentally break your windows installation
because like the partition editor
was like kind of like
no guardrails in some ways.
So we were really excited
to have managed to install
Debbie and on this machine
without breaking windows, because I
didn't know if I might
still need it. I might
need to like do my
homework or something. You know,
I was in, I was
in high school at the
time. So it was a
little too risky to just
kind of wholesale replace it.
Yeah. But you haven't needed
windows for 11 years, so
you probably can delete that
partition. Yeah. In fact, on
my latest laptop, I, every
time I buy a new
laptop these days, I just
completely wipe it away though
with this recent one, I
kind of a couple days
after doing that, I considered
whether maybe I should have
kept it this time because,
and I think we might,
it might be good to
talk about a bit more
about this later. But as
a CTO at a company,
I spent a lot more
time talking to and working
with people who like are
not programmers. And I worry
that maybe there is something
that I might need windows
for to like, you know,
deal with some obscure Microsoft
tools or something. But I
just borrow someone's laptop when
that happens. Yeah. That's a
good system. The thing you
didn't tell me though, is
that this is when you're
what, 14, 15, this is
all happening. Yeah. I was,
I was like 15, 16
at this time. So I
installed Linux and I started
trying to teach myself C
because the mud server was
written in C and a
C is really not the
best language to learn as
your first language. I would
not recommend it because, you
know, it's, it's really a
pretty low level language. And
I remember, so I, I
bought the like classic C
book, which is like the
current again and Richie K
and book. And I remember
reading it and there's this
chapter on pointers and I'm
pretty sure I read that
chapter like three times because
I just, I just couldn't
wrap my head around the
idea of what a pointer
was. And eventually like, after
spending enough time with it,
it sort of clicked, but
I have very vivid memories
of it being very difficult.
I have the same experience.
That's just pointers, pointers, pointers.
And then at some point
it clicks and then it's
like, Oh, okay, Mind mindblowing
as like not having background
with a lot when it
comes to computing, just like
having that be your intro
and being like, what's a
memory address. Well, this is
pretty crazy Question aside kind
of a sidebar question about
this, because this is interesting.
So, so you and I
have very similar histories in
that we were thinking about
memory and pointers and instruction.
You know, that level, this
is what Maria on my
team calls learning from the
metal up, but she says,
and she's a little bit
younger than I am that
she learns from the glass
of the monitor back, meaning
she wants to go into
the browser and hit F
12. And at some point
she just accepts that the
abstraction is the abstraction. And
for her maybe JavaScript is
the metal or maybe go
is the metal or Python
is the metal. Do you
think that we come built
in as a top down
or bottom up learner? Good
question. I Like, do you
drive a stick shift? You
know what I mean? No,
that was good. I don't
drive a stick shift, but
I do know how to
drive a stick shift. There
you go. And say, that's
the thing, right? Yeah. Early
thought of that before. I'm
not really convinced that like
either one of them is
like the one true way.
Yeah. I'm one of those
people who like knows how
to low level program, but
have like the utmost respect
for high level programming, because
it's not less complicated. It's
just complicated in different ways.
So Yeah, someone told me
once that success is a
pretty good metric. So if,
you know, if you don't
know assembler, but you launched
Twitter, well, success is a
pretty good metric, so, Yup.
Yup. I feel like it
kind of like computing lore,
there's this like, and just
the culture and what kind
of we value, like, there's
this meet those in like
kind of low level, like
close to the machine programming
and I'm a little skeptical
of it as like a
measure of like how great
a program are you are.
Yeah. Well, I don't think
being a, this isn't about,
for me, it's not about
being a great programmer. Like,
you know, everyone is, is
different. It's more about what
is the best way to
effectively get computing information into
a team and to a
person. And the problem is
everyone's a different kind of
learner, you know, here, audio,
audible learners, visual learners, people
who read kinesthetic learners, you
know, not everyone wants to
say, Hey, let's talk about
double pointers. Yeah. I guess
I would kind of agree
that I like to kind
of know the details and
abstract from there rather than
the other way around though.
It's definitely the case that
sometimes when you're like learning
a new thing, that's like
a new programming language or
a new framework. Like at
some point you're going to
be in a situation where
you almost have to like
deal with the fact that
you don't understand what's going
on and like roll with
it for a little while.
Well, and then at some
point you have to decide,
okay, this car is not
starting. Am I going to
open the hood? Or am
I going to hire someone
to open the hood? Now
you went to MIT after
this and then went on
and worked on Colonel patching
at, at case splice, which
is basically doing Linux security
fixes without rebooting. So what
is that changing the engine
on the car while it's
driving on the freeway? Yeah,
pretty much. Yeah. That's, that's
definitely opening the hood and
then flipping the car over.
Yep. Yeah. At MIT, my,
my favorite class was actually
the operating systems class because
it just kind of made
me feel like a wizard,
like to like actually access
the low level hardware. And
if you mess up your
entire computer can crash. And
I don't know, I just,
I just thought it was
the funnest thing to like,
you know, inspect network packets,
like at the kind of
packet level and kind of
make them go and like,
think about the fact that
like data is moving through
the hardware of, of this
machine. That's really exciting. Hi,
just jumping in for a
quick word from one of
our sponsors today's episode is
sponsored by Dundess data visualization,
the developers behind Dundess BI
the most flexible business intelligence
and analytics platform in the
world. Dundas BI allows you
to easily connect to any
data source. You can analyze
your data and then share
the results using world-class interactive
visualizations. It's consistently rated by
users as a top BI
platform. Dundas BI is unique
in that it is entirely
open and extensible, so you
can customize it to your
exact needs. So if you're
developing a web application and
you want to enhance it
with integrated analytics, that your
users will love, you can
cut down your development time
and boost your offering by
easily embedding Dundas, BI extreme
flexibility, massive capabilities, and endless
possibilities. Try it yourself. You
can download a free trial
today at dundess.com/bi that's, D
U N D a s.com/bi.
Have you ever seen Julia Evans?
So you want to be
a wizard programmers, EAN. I
totally have. I, in fact,
I know Julia and she's
amazing. She is amazing. And,
and the way that, that
way of presenting information is
this, this is like a
fun, cool. You know, you
have power, you are empowered,
you are in control. It's
such a fun way to
get people excited about computers.
Yeah. I mean, computing in
general is just like kind
of an incredible feat of
human ingenuity going from like
this abstraction. That's like high
voltage and low voltage. And
somehow ending up with like
these crazy information machines that
now allow us to automate
things and like aggregate large
amounts of information, Not to
mention that it's all so
broken and it still works.
Yeah. I, I agree with
that. Having been for awhile,
it's amazing that any of
this stuff works. Oh yeah.
And, and I'm on a,
I mean, you know, I'm
on an Intel machine running
windows and I haven't rebooted
in, in 24 days and
maybe you're on Debby and
on an AMD and you
haven't rebooted and I dunno,
20 years, however long I,
yeah, I did actually log
into my server the other
day and realized that I
was two major releases of
Debby and behind. And if
you know, Debbie and, you
know, they don't release very
often. So it's like, it's
like a stable release every
two years. So rarely updated
that server in about five
years. So fast forward a
little bit, and you've gone
from mud to hot patching
the Colonel, and then you,
you decided to start a
company. And right now you're
the CTO at Nylas that's
N Y L I s.com
and I'm CTO. That's like
the sea level, that's the
seat with this, where they
call that the C suite.
Yeah, yep. Is kind of
a big deal, right? That's
the year like on the
stock filings or whatever, but
that, that doesn't sound like
the person who's patching the
kernels. That sounds like a
business person. Yeah. CTO is
interesting. I think it would
be useful to kind of
give a little backstory as
to how I kind of
ended up in this position
please. So even before I
started the company, so I
was at, at this company
case place doing like Colonel
and the founders of that
company, or some people that
I met at MIT through
the MIT computer club. And
after about a year of
being at that company, the
founders sold the company to
Oracle, says at Oracle for
a little bit. And it
was like through that expense
that I pretty much came
to the conclusion. This is
my first time ever working
for a really large company.
And I didn't like it.
And so I had been
thinking about like, what was
going to be my next
step during my time at
Oracle and ended up starting
this company with a friend
of mine from college and
in the beginning, that's the
split between me and my
cofounder. Michael was pretty much
that like the product idea
was completely him. It was
like based on something that
he had worked on as
like his undergraduate thesis, he
basically been trying to build
some stuff with email and
it was like, wow, this
is a really difficult to
actually even access the data.
Maybe this is why people
haven't been building new, innovative
things that kind of work
with this core technology that
like everyone uses, but no
one really loves. So he
was always kind of the
initial product visionary in terms
of like what problem we
were trying to solve. And
I really joined as kind
of the like implementation chops
where, you know, I was
doing like backend engineering and,
you know, at case place
we had this huge VM
farm because part of the
way the technology worked was
that every time you were
like converting a source code
patch to binary patch, you
actually had to compile the
patch against every single old
version of the kernel that
you were trying to update,
which was basically like every
single kernel that had been
released by every single Linux
Cicero out there. And that
meant there was basically like
hundreds of builds that we
had to do for every
single patch we were updating.
So we had this like
pretty complex VM infrastructure that
automated kind of parallel building
of all of these kernels
as fast as we could.
And so it was a
really different front kind of
product space for me to
like switch to like working
on email. But I came
from like a backend engineering
background. So it made a
lot of sense for me
to kind of start building
out the sync engine that
we use to sync data
with email servers and Michael
pretty much like figured out,
like what was kind of
the design of a kind
of the API and worked
with some other folks that
were early on the team
to do that. And I
was focused on kind of
like the lower level infrastructure
and data storage and figured
out kind of how we
were going to make it
much easier for clients to
be able to kind of
sync and brought all of
our kind of first infrastructure
up and stuff like that.
So was definitely super, super
hands on in the beginning.
And we really have titles
at the early days of
the company, you know, when
you're, you know, like six
people in like a tiny
office and you're all just
kind of working on building
the product. It's not really
useful. I think of titles
as being mostly useful for
like people outside of a
company actually. And once you
get a company to a
big enough size, it becomes
useful internally because people like
don't know everyone super well
and they need to know
what you do. And it
was, I think it was
about like two years into
the company. Like people on
the team just actually just
started referring to me as
the CTO, which wasn't really
something that I had pushed,
but I just kind of
rolled with it because I
was kind of like acting
as like the lead architect
for kind of the backend
and the term CTO can
mean a lot of different
things I've found and like
what that person does differs
a lot from company to
company. And it's not that
weird for, at an, a
very small, early stage startup
for the CTO to actually
be kind of like very,
very highly technical and like
doing some sort of like
architectural work on the actual
product. So I think it
wasn't appropriate title for me
at that point in the
company. And since then, I
feel like I've kind of
grown more into the mantle
of like what a CTO
does at a larger company.
And that, that has been
actually like really good for
me in terms of like
growth. I still consider myself
to be highly technical and
people on the team actually
like still send me code
reviews and stuff like that.
So the company right now
is it's about 25 people
and about half of that
is engineering, but my role
has definitely changed a lot.
I'm not like writing code
all day every day. And
I keep myself out of
the critical path for kind
of shipping new features or
like doing major projects. And
what I mean by critical
path is that my work
on a project should not
be a blocker to shipping
it. Yeah. Sometimes we talk
about the bus factor of
a person. Have you heard
that? Yeah. Right. Do you
get, what if Christine gets
hit by a bus? Can
we still ship? Yeah. Even
beyond the bus factor, like
bus factor can be like
does more than one person
know how this system even
works. And there were definitely
points in the history of
the company where I would've
been, it would've been really
bad if something had happened
to me because there were
things that like nobody else
understood. And there were other
people in the company that
were experts on certain things
and no one else really
understood and kind of as
the person who's been there
from the beginning, and this
is kind of like being
in charge of like the
health of the backends. Like
I've been the one who
has also like when people
have come and gone, made
sure that like, we understood
how the code that they
wrote and the other people
could, could work on it,
but more so today than
like being not like critical
to shipping your project, I
want to not be a
blocker. And these days at
kind of, as the company
has grown a lot, I
have a lot more meetings
in my calendar then I
used to. And it's, they're
kind of like these two
different modes of operating a
if you've ever heard of,
I think Paul Graham wrote an
essay about this it's like
maker mode and a manager
mode where like, when you're
in like maker mode, you
need like long stretches of
time. So you can get
into flow. And you're like
working on building something, whereas
like manager mode is like,
Oh, I'm like kind of
like pulling myself out of
the details. And I might
be like, kind of monitoring
how various different things are
going. I'm like talking to
a lots of people. I'm
communicating a lot. I might
be meeting with external people
who are not kind of
actually employees at the company.
And it's kind of hard
to switch back and forth
between those two modes. And
if you're trying to do
that, it makes the project
work those slower. And so
it's also, I find it's
very enticing and that if
I let myself do too
much technical work these days,
I will neglect other things
that are very important. And
I won't respond to emails
for a long time and
as bad Are you concerned
that you would lose your
technical ability after so many
years of being so technical?
I definitely think about that
sometimes. Yeah. I'm kind of
in this, in this point
where I would say that
like most of my time
on a week to week
basis is not like writing
code, but I still understand
how all of our systems
work, my kind of help
guide architecture. I'm like talking
one-on-one with the senior engineers
on our team on a
regular basis helping kind of
figure out what direction we
want to go in. And
I also am still a
part of our rotation for
like dealing with customer bugs.
So that kind of allows
me to get my fix
of writing a little bit
of code sometimes, and also
just kind of stay in
touch with like, what are
the things that go wrong?
And like, what are our
actual like customers experiencing? And
so I'm able to like,
you know, write patches that
fix things for that. But
I do find that like
when I am the person
who's in that rotation, what
it takes me like longer
to ramp up than it
used to. And also because
there are some meetings that
I like can't really like
put off or like not
go to during the week.
I'm like not as effective
as like a full time
engineer on that rotation. And
it's something that like, I've
keeping an eye on at
this point. But for me,
like, I've always about my
role at the company as
like, what does the company
need most from me right
now? And what's kind of
the highest leverage thing for
me to be doing. And
like, as a founder at
a company, you almost occupy
a little bit of like
a, kind of like a
spiritual symbolic role where I
actually, it was really important
to me when we started
the company to focus a
lot on the culture, because
doing a startup is one
of the few chances that
you get to actually kind
of start from scratch when
building how an organization works.
And as a person who's
been here from the beginning,
I view it as my
responsibility to kind of be
the steward of that culture.
And as the company gets
bigger, there's like more work
to be done with that.
For example, we've been doing
this thing where we have
basically like every six months,
we'll have a whole company
offsite and talk about kind
of like high level strategy
and like our company's values
and like the mission of
what we're doing and trying
to accomplish and going after.
And like for the last
one, I spent a fair
amount of time preparing beforehand.
I use that as an
opportunity to get feedback from
the team about what we
like. And don't like, and
we have a open source
handbook that we've published on
GitHub with kind of like
our values and company policies.
And it's like a way
to communicate both internally to
people who are joining the
team and also to external
people who might be wanting
to know more about us,
or even like other, other
people who just like want
to get a great like
parental leave policy and, and
just like, copy it. And
so kind of revising that
and keeping it up to
date something that's really important
to me because as you
add a lot of more
people to a team, like
they only know what you
tell them about how the
company operates and what they
see. So like this communication
of what's important to us
is like vital to kind
of keeping the culture going
as the company grows. Well,
you've kind of outlined the
D like there's, you've mentioned
like lead developer than chief
architect or lead architect, and
then CTO. And as you
Uplevel, I'm hearing you say,
as you Uplevel those things,
you're going from being the
smartest person in the room
or being the technical one,
or being the kernel patcher
to being the, the, the
big picture person to being
the bridge between the business
and the technology to being
a culture setter for the
technology division of your company.
Yeah. And there's a few
more things to it too.
Like for example, there was
a point during the history
of the company that I
actually managed every, every person
on the engineering team. And
I had done a tiny
little bit of management before
at Oracle though. I only
had two people who reported
to me there. So it
wasn't really kind of a
full, full management load, but
I at least got to
practice a little bit. And
I would say that kind
of like listening and empathy
is one of my strong
points. And I really enjoyed
having an opportunity to kind
of exercise that ability. And
I've found management is also
like it's a different mode
of operating. And I think
that, like I would say
that you have to think
about it a little bit
differently to find it satisfying,
but I found over time
that it has grown to
be a thing that is
exciting to me. So the
thing that I find exciting
about like building technology is
like, kind of figuring out
all the details of like
all the components and making
something that works, that allows
you to do something that
you couldn't do before. And
you can almost think about
building an organization in kind
of the same way where
you have slightly different components.
The components are people, but
more and more over time,
I've like, I feel like
I've developed this ability to
get excited about accomplishing things
like through other people, rather
than like doing everything myself.
And it's also exciting to
see like how much more
you can get done by
kind of harnessing other people
and like creating like an
organizational machine that is empowering.
And that makes it easy
for people to like collaborate
together and do great things.
So it's definitely been a
bit of a journey, but
I'm excited about kind of
the organizational side of things
too. And I think that
it's not like the natural
path for everyone, but I
feel like it's working for
me and that there's not
really anyone else at the
company who could like occupy
this role in quite the
same way. So I think
it's really important for kind
of me to stick to
it. Oh, how often do
you have to, or do
you have to posture a
little bit and remind yourself,
maybe if you're talking to
an investor or a business
person, like, how often are
they going to say, Oh,
she's the CTO? Like, how
often does that happen? You
know, I've never had anyone
say that to my face
or like, Well, yeah, of
course. I assume that it
would never, hopefully would not
happen to your face Actively
like disconcerted, but I do,
I do think about, I
come kind of a little
bit delighted about the fact
that probably what I work
at, walk into the room.
Sometimes it's like a little
bit, a little bit shocking
to people and they're like,
what you revel in that
a little bit. Yeah. Yeah.
I mean, as like a
female founder and also like
female, like CTO at a
company, there's a certain extent
as to which just, just
existing is like changing the
status quo a bit and
kind of like making tech
more inclusive is also really
important to me. And I've
definitely been in places where
I've like beat myself up
a little bit, because I
feel like I'm not doing
enough, but I just have
to kind of remind myself
over time that like just
existing and like succeeding in
this role is contributing in
a way. I think that's,
that's a good way to
put it. I mean, you,
you can talk about what
you're doing and you can
spend all of your time
doing that, or you can
do the thing you're doing.
And simply by being visible
and bike kicking butt, people
will see that and, and
people can go up to
nylon.com and Y L a
S and I was able
to go, just scroll down
a little bit where it
says developers first cause I'm
a developer. And I was
able to try a live
example of how the API
works and my terminal run,
curl, and, and look at
messages just right there with,
with curl or HTTP I
E or w get it's
pretty slick. Yeah. Definitely check
it out. Yeah. Thank you
so much for chatting with
me today. Sure. It's been
really great. I really enjoyed
getting to know you a
bit Scott and having this
conversation. Cool. We appreciate you.
This has been another episode
of Hanselminutes and we'll see
you again next week. .